[WIP] feature: doc restructure (#21)
yongenaelf/aelf-docs: docs/tutorial/stackup/2. smart-contract/2.3 UnitTest-Smart-Contract-Logic.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Unit Test Voting Smart Contract Logic

> It is advice to create a Unit Text for the Smart Contract before it is deployed to the Aelf blockchain. The Unit Test not just help us to verify the Smart Contract is free from bugs, it is also gives us the opportunity to review our code before it is deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a unit test for the Smart Contract before deploying it to the Aelf blockchain is recommended. The unit test not only assists in verifying the absence of bugs in the Smart Contract but also provides an opportunity to review our code prior to deployment.
```

            await BuildersDAOStub.VoteOnProposal.SendAsync(voteInput2);
            var voteInput3 = new VoteInput
            {
                ProposalId = proposal.Output.Id,
                Vote = false,
                Voter = Accounts[3].Address
            };
            await BuildersDAOStub.VoteOnProposal.SendAsync(voteInput3);
            
           var proposalResult = await BuildersDAOStub.GetAllProposals.CallAsync(new Empty());
           proposalResult.Proposals[1].Id.ShouldBe(proposal.Output.Id);
           proposalResult.Proposals[1].YesVotes.ShouldContain(Accounts[1].Address);
           proposalResult.Proposals[1].YesVotes.ShouldContain(Accounts[2].Address);
           proposalResult.Proposals[1].NoVotes.ShouldContain(Accounts[3].Address);
        }
    }
}
```

After that, run ``dotnet test`` command to execute this unit test case, and check the result.

You should see the following output from terminal:

![result](/img/unit-test-output.png)

**Understanding the Code**

In this code snippet, we run the unit test with the following methods in sequence.

- **Initialize** - 
The Initialize method is to initialize the Smart Contract. 

- **JoinDAO** - 

> After we have initialized the BuildsDAO smart contract, we simulate three participants by calling the JoinDAO methods three times with three different accounts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After we have initialized the BuildersDAO smart contract, we simulate three participants by calling the JoinDAO methods three times with three different accounts
```
